feat: add luhn algorithm lab to FS (#60903)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-luhn-algorithm/68507cadbf36aa089a84ce2d.md

---
id: 68507cadbf36aa089a84ce2d
title: Implement the Luhn Algorithm
challengeType: 27
dashedName: implement-the-luhn-algorithm
---

# --description--

The Luhn algorithm, also known as the "modulus 10" or "mod 10" algorithm, is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers, like credit card numbers. These are the steps to validate a number using the Luhn algorithm:

- Starting from the right, and excluding the rightmost digit (the check digit), double the value of every other digit.
- If the result of doubling a digit is greater than `9`, sum the digits to get a single digit. Alternatively, you can subtract `9` from the result.
- Take the sum of all the digits including the check digit.
- If the sum of all the digits is a multiple of `10`, then the number is valid; else it is not valid.

> Let's say we have the number `453914880`. The steps to validate it using the Luhn algorithm would be:
> 
>  ```md 
>  Account number      4   5   3   9   1   4   8   8   0 
>  Double every other  4  10   3  18   1   8   8  16   0 
>  Sum 2-char digits   4   1   3   9   1   8   8   7   0 
>  ``` 
> 
> - Then sum all numbers, `4 + 1 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 8 + 7 + 0 = 41`.
> - Since `41` is not a multiple of `10`, the number is invalid.

Reviewer: It's shouldn't be necessary, but I would change the check digit to 1 to avoid any ambiguities.

````suggestion
Let's say we have the number `453914881`. The steps to validate it using the Luhn algorithm would be:

 ```md 
 Account number      4   5   3   9   1   4   8   8   1 
 Double every other  4  10   3  18   1   8   8  16   1 
 Sum 2-char digits   4   1   3   9   1   8   8   7   1 
 ``` 

- Then sum all numbers, `4 + 1 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 8 + 7 + 1 = 42`.
- Since `42` is not a multiple of `10`, the number is invalid.
````

2. Within the `verify_card_number` function:

   - You should handle any dashes or spaces that may be present in the card number passed to it.
   - Return `VALID!` if the card number is valid; otherwise, return `INVALID!`.

When you complete the project, you should see the following messages depending on the input:

| Card Number         | Message  |
| ------------------- | -------- |
| 453914889           | VALID!   |
| 4111-1111-1111-1111 | VALID!   |
| 1234 5678 9012 3456 | INVALID! |

# --hints--

You should have a function named `verify_card_number`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
    assert _Node(_code).has_function('verify_card_number')
    `)
})
```

`verify_card_number('453914889')` should return `VALID!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
    assert verify_card_number('453914889') == 'VALID!'
    `)
})
```

`verify_card_number('4111-1111-1111-1111')` should return `VALID!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
    assert verify_card_number('4111-1111-1111-1111') == 'VALID!'
    `)
})
```

`verify_card_number('453914880')` should return `INVALID!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`

>     assert verify_card_number('453914880') == 'VALID!'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert verify_card_number('453914880') == 'INVALID!'
```

title: Implement the Luhn Algorithm
challengeType: 27
dashedName: implement-the-luhn-algorithm
---

# --description--

The Luhn algorithm, also known as the "modulus 10" or "mod 10" algorithm, is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers, like credit card numbers. These are the steps to validate a number using the Luhn algorithm:

- Starting from the right, and excluding the rightmost digit (the check digit), double the value of every other digit.
- If the result of doubling a digit is greater than `9`, sum the digits to get a single digit. Alternatively, you can subtract `9` from the result.
- Take the sum of all the digits including the check digit.
- If the sum of all the digits is a multiple of `10`, then the number is valid; else it is not valid.

Let's say we have the number `453914880`. The steps to validate it using the Luhn algorithm would be:

```md
Account number       4   5   3   9   1   4   8   8   0   
Double every other       ✔       ✔       ✔       ✔   x 
                     4   10  3   18  1   8   8   16  0  
Sum 2-char digits    4    1  3    9  1   8   8    7  0
Total Sum:           4 + 1 + 3 + 9 + 1 + 8 + 8 + 7 + 0 = 41

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't like how this looks rendered, `✔` is not monospaced, I think we need to find a different character
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/819bc3ac-5cc4-4c74-95dd-6ca6b0dfab10)

Reviewer 3: Is there another font that we should potentially add that covers the character?
